[Applause]
hey are you trying your best to get
everything done but feeling like 24
hours in a day isn't enough the struggle
is real I know the only way to stop
running on fumes is to start treating
time a bit differently find out how to
juggle your commitments with ease right
now let's count it down from number 17
start your day right the way you start
your day is extremely important for your
productivity no I'm not gonna tell you
that you have to get down to business
first thing in the morning the first
hour after waking up must be dedicated
to something that can boost your energy
and fill you with positive emotions it
might be physical exercises that help
your body wake up completely or a
meditation session that calms you before
dealing with the challenges of a new day
don't forget to have a great breakfast
now you're ready to conquer the world
[Music]
number 16 work on your most important
tasks first supposedly Mark Twain once
said if it's your job to eat a frog it's
best to do it first thing in the morning
and if it's your job to eat two frogs
it's best to eat the biggest one first
get the point if you're working day
starts with checking your emails or
doing small tasks that are not urgent
you're doing it the wrong way
tackle your biggest task in the morning
because this is when your brain works
best knowing that the hardest part of
your work is finished will make you feel
less stressed and more inspired to keep
going number 15 find out where your time
goes still can't figure out why time is
slipping through your fingers like sand
well stop playing at the beach no
actually you should try to write down
exactly how you spend it
I mean write down everything you do
every hour of every day for a whole week
trust me at the end of this experiment
you'll be Asthana
when you look through your notes it'll
be clear that you waste loads of time
they could be used more productively but
don't beat yourself up about it
the point here is to become aware of
your time stealing habits and activities
so that you can get rid of them number
14 break down your goals do you have a
big project that scares you because you
don't know where to start trying to
achieve your goal might lead to
frustration and procrastination if you
don't divide it into manageable chunks
and this can be done in the shortest
span of time when you know exactly what
you have to do and when it gives you
more confidence moreover you won't
hesitate to take the first step so plant
not only the results you want but also
the road that will lead you to them
number 13 catch up on time if you feel
overwhelmed by your responsibilities
discover where you can get more time
stuck in a traffic jam or waiting for a
doctor's appointment thanks to modern
technology it's easy to do almost any
kind of work without being present at
the office get down to a small task like
answering messages calling a client and
so on or why not listen to an audio book
that will level up your professional
skills while taking a bath number 12
stay motivated the easiest way to get
things done faster is to be motivated if
you do something that you're passionate
about you're set up for success of
course you can't do only the things you
like but you can change your attitude
toward them by realizing how every step
takes you closer to your goals 11 group
related tasks switching from one task to
another demands time to adjust to a new
activity that requires a different type
of thinking therefore it makes sense to
do similar tasks together rather than
having to
Oread more often for example if you have
to create two presentations and make a
few calls it's better to finish one type
of work and then move on to the next
number ten set time limits for each task
try not to start a task with a thought
I'll finish when I'm done trust me
knowing that you have all the time in
the world will just lead to
procrastination estimate first how much
time you'll need to finish something and
don't exceed it this will push you to
focus and be more efficient even if you
end up having to go back and add a bit
later
number 9 take breaks between tasks don't
rush from task to task as this will
leave you feeling burned out allowing
yourself some buffer time between tasks
can be like a breath of fresh air for
your brain while taking a break go for a
short walk have a snack or meditate to
clear your mind number 8
leave out small details if you're
anything like me you want everything to
be perfect and this desire makes you
constantly examine what you've done so
far but checking it all the time drags
you down and slows your progress instead
get the bulk completed first and revise
things later you can always go back to
those small details and polish them off
at the end number 7 learn to say no
managing your time isn't only about
being productive it's also about getting
on top of your priorities unfortunately
you can't do everything that's why you
have to learn to value your time and
teach others to treat your time with
respect to don't let them screw with
your schedule has your friend asked you
to pick them up from the airport in the
middle of a workday doing this favor
will throw you off course simply dust
off your people skills and learn to say
no in a very polite and delicate way
number six declutter and organize is
your desk flooded with papers does it
take you ages to find the things you
need researchers at the Princeton
Neuroscience Institute found out that
physical clutter negatively affects your
ability to focus and process information
and when you lose focus you lose time if
you want to avoid that declutter and
organize your stuff you can start small
just one drawer today and the next one
tomorrow your work process will get
easier when everything is neat and tidy
and you'll notice it right away
number five take care of small things
this is the easiest tip that you can
start using right away if it takes less
than five minutes to do a task do it
immediately small things are not hard to
do but getting them out of your way will
increase your productivity by letting
you focus on more important and
time-consuming stuff number four throw
away your to-do list yep you heard that
right did you know that 41% of to-do
items are never completed or don't
correlate with what you plan to do the
magnitude of a to-do list can be
overwhelming and even distracting the
main problem is that you mix everything
up work goals household chores and
personal stuff like getting your hair
cut keeping a weekly calendar is much
more effective you're still aware of all
your firm deadlines and important events
but you stress out less if something
doesn't go according to plan
number three fool your inner
procrastinator I know all too well that
fighting procrastination is hard but
there is a way to beat it down before
starting any task think about all the
possible distractions and excuses your
inner procrastinator might come up with
then simply do some preventative work
for example if you need to write a
report
keep your phone out of reach to avoid
checking social media
yeah number two
quit multitasking now some people are
sure that multitasking is the key to
making the most of their time but those
who are successful know that
multitasking is pretty much a waste of
time
a study from the University of Michigan
confirmed that the human brain isn't
designed to multitask it's best to focus
on one task and finish it properly
before going on to the next one and
number one make your meals a social
event having a last resort lunch from
the vending machine
hmm you may think you're saving time by
doing this but you're really adding
unnecessary stress by depriving yourself
of the social time that gives your brain
a rest have breakfast with your family
and lunch with your coworkers positive
interactions with people will help you
recharge and stay motivated pretty good
ideas huh so what helps you manage your
time successfully share your experience
with others by leaving a comment below
and be sure to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to always stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]